Add Web Payments collection to /learn (#2907)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/payments/setting-up-a-payment-method/index.md

Web-based payment apps can be launched without the user's explicit prior visit
to the payment app website and registering the service worker. The service
worker can be registered just-in-time when the user chooses to pay with the
web-based payment app. There are two variations for the registration timing:

- If the Payment Request UI is shown to the user, the app is registered
  just-in-time and launched when the user clicks **Continue**.
- If the Payment Request UI is skipped, the payment app is registered
  just-in-time and launched directly. Skipping the Payment Request UI to launch
  a just-in-time registered app requires a user gesture, which prevents
  unexpected registration of cross-origin service workers.

{% Aside %}
While a single payment method identifier can support multiple payment apps,
JIT-registration happens only when the payment method manifest points to a
single payment app.
{% endAside %}

## Next Steps
Now that you have your payment app discoverable, learn how to develop a native
payment app and a web-based payment app.

- [Android payment apps: developer's guide](/native-payment-apps-overview)

> - Web based payment apps developer guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Web based payment apps developer guide (Coming soon)
```
@kaycebasques Could we tease the upcoming posts like this?

  payment app. Learn how to set up a payment method and get your payment app
  ready for merchants and customers to make payment.
date: 2020-05-25
---

To be used with the Payment Request API, a payment app must be associated with a
payment method identifier. Merchants that want to integrate with a payment app
will use the payment method identifier to indicate that to the browser. This
article discusses how payment app discovery works,  and how to configure your
payment app to be properly discovered and invoked by a browser.

If you are new to the concept of Web Payments, how a payment transaction works
through payment apps, please read following articles first:

- [Empowering payment apps with Web Payments](/empowering-payment-apps)
- [Life of a payment transaction](/life-of-a-payment-transaction)

## How a browser discovers a payment app

Every payment app needs to provide the following: 

- a URL-based payment method identifier
- a payment method manifest (except when the payment method identifier is
  provided by a third party)
- a web app manifest

![Diagram: How a browser discovers the payment app from a URL-based payment

> method identifier](diagram_direct.png)

Author: Fixed.

{% Aside %}
Chrome supports a single default payment app per single payment method as of Chrome 83.
{% endAside %}

### Optionally route the browser to find the payment method manifest in another location
The payment method identifier URL can optionally respond with a `Link` header
that points to another URL where the browser can fetch the payment method
manifest. This is useful when a payment method manifest is hosted at a different
server or when the payment app is served by a third party.

![How a browser discovers the payment app from a URL-based payment method
identifier with redirects](diagram_indirect.png)

Configure the payment method server to respond with a HTTP `Link` header with
the `rel="payment-method-manifest"` attribute and the [payment method
manifest](https://w3c.github.io/payment-method-manifest/) URL.

For example, if the manifest is at `https://bobpay.xyz/payment-manifest.json`,
the response header would include:

```http
Link: <https://bobpay.xyz/payment-manifest.json>; rel="payment-method-manifest"
```

The URL can be a fully-qualified domain name or a relative path. Inspect
`https://bobpay.xyz/pay/` for network traffic to see an example. You may use a

> curl command as well:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`curl` command as well:
```

      "id": "com.example.android.samplepay",
      "min_version": "1",
      "fingerprints": [
        {
          "type": "sha256_cert",
          "value": "4C:FC:14:C6:97:DE:66:4E:66:97:50:C0:24:CE:5F:27:00:92:EE:F3:7F:18:B3:DA:77:66:84:CD:9D:E9:D2:CB"
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

The information described in a web app manifest is also used to define how a
payment app appears in the Payment Request UI.

<div class="w-table-wrapper">
  <table>
    <thead>
      <tr>
        <th>Property name</th>
        <th>Description</th>
      </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <code><a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Manifest/name">name</a></code> (required)
        </td>
        <td>
        Used as the payment app name.
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <code><a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Manifest/icons">icons</a></code> (required)
        </td>
        <td>
        Used as the payment app icon. Only Chrome uses these icons; other
        browsers may use them as fallback icons if you don't specify them as
        part of the payment instrument.
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>

>           <code><a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Manifest/serviceworker">serviceworer</a></code>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
          <code><a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Manifest/serviceworker">serviceworker</a></code>
```

        <td>
        The URL to download the service worker script from.
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <code><a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Manifest/related_applications">related_applications</a></code>
        </td>
        <td>
        Used to detect the native app that acts as the native payment app.
        Find more details at <a href="/native-payment-apps-overview">Android
        payment apps developer guide</a>.
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <code><a href="https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Manifest/prefer_related_applications">prefer_related_applications</a></code>
        </td>
        <td>
        Used to determine which payment app to launch when both a native payment app and a web-based payment app are available.
        </td>
      </tr>
      <tr>
        <td>
          <code><a href="https://github.com/sahel-sh/shipping-contact-delegation/blob/master/Explainer.md#edit-just-in-time-jit-installation">payment.supported_delegations</a></code>
        </td>
        <td>
        A string array used to determine the additional information that the

>         payment app can provide. `shippingAddress`, `payerName`, `payerEmail`,
>         and `payerPhone` are valid values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        payment app can provide. <code>shippingAddress</code>, <code>payerName</code>, <code>payerEmail</code>,
        and <code>payerPhone</code> are valid values.
```
markdown doesn't work here

        </td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
    <caption>Important web app manifest fields</caption>
  </table>
</div>

![](web-app-manifest.png)

The web app manifest's `name` property is used as the payment app name, `icons`

> property is used as the payment app icon.

Reviewer 2: * Needs an `alt`
* You can use the paragraph as a caption: https://web.dev/handbook/markup-media/#images-with-captions

## How Chrome determines which payment app to launch
### Launching the native payment app

To launch the native payment app, the following conditions must be met:

> - The `related_applications` field is specified in the web app manifest that
>   has:
>     - The installed app's package id and signature matches, while the minimum
>       version (`min_version`) in the web app manifest is less than or equal to
>       the version of the installed application.
> - The `prefer_related_applications` field is `true`.
> - The native payment app is installed that has:
>     - An intent filter of `org.chromium.action.PAY` is specified.
>     - The payment method identifier is specified as the value of `org.chromium.default_payment_method_name` metadata.
>     -   Learn more details about how to set these up: [Android payment apps:
>         developer's
>         guide](/native-payment-apps-overview)
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `related_applications` field is specified in the web app manifest and:
    - The installed app's package ID and signature match, while the minimum
      version (`min_version`) in the web app manifest is less than or equal to
      the version of the installed application.
- The `prefer_related_applications` field is `true`.
- The native payment app is installed and has:
    - An intent filter of `org.chromium.action.PAY`.
    - A payment method identifier specified as the value for the `org.chromium.default_payment_method_name` property.

Check out the [Android payment apps: developer's guide](/native-payment-apps-overview)
for more details about how to set these up.

```

{% Label %}[payment handler] /manifest.json{% endLabel %}

```json
"prefer_related_applications": true,
"related_applications": [{
  "platform": "play",
  "id": "xyz.bobpay.app",
  "min_version": "1",
  "fingerprints": [{
    "type": "sha256_cert",
    "value": "92:5A:39:05:C5:B9:EA:BC:71:48:5F:F2:05:0A:1E:57:5F:23:40:E9:E3:87:14:EC:6D:A2:04:21:E0:FD:3B:D1"
  }]
}]
```

If the browser has determined that the native payment app is available, the
discovery flow is terminated here. Otherwise it continues to the next step --
launching the web-based payment app.

### Launching the web-based payment app
The web-based payment app should be specified in the web app manifest's `serviceworker` field.

{% Label %}[payment handler] /manifest.json:{% endLabel %}

```json
"serviceworker": {
  "src": "payment-handler.js"
}
```

The browser launches the web-based payment app by sending a `paymentrequest`
event to the service worker. The service worker doesn't have to be registered in

> advance. It can be registered just-in-time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
advance. [It can be registered just-in-time](#jit-register).
```

> {% Aside %}
> Learn more how that works in [When a web-based payment app is registered
> just-in-time?](#jit-register).
> {% endAside %}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

## Understanding the special optimizations
### How browsers can skip the Payment Request UI and launch a payment app directly

> In Chrome, when `.show()` method is called, the Payment Request API displays a

Reviewer 2: What object/class is `.show()` a member of?

browser native UI called the "Payment Request UI". This UI allows users to
choose a payment app, shipping options and delivery address, and payer's contact

> information. After pressing the "Continue" button in the Payment Request UI, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
information. After pressing the **Continue** button in the Payment Request UI, the
```

selected payment app is launched.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/payments/without-skip-the-sheet.webm" type="video/webm">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/payments/without-skip-the-sheet2.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Payment Request UI intervenes before launching the payment app.
  </figcaption>

> </figure>

Reviewer 2: Can you remove the blackspace from this video?

Showing the Payment Request UI before launching a payment app increases the
number of steps needed for a user to fulfill a payment. To optimize the process,
the browser can delegate fulfillment of that information to payment apps and
launch a payment app directly without showing the Payment Request UI when
`.show()` is called.

<figure class="w-figure">
  <video controls autoplay loop muted class="w-screenshot">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/payments/skip-the-sheet.webm" type="video/webm">
    <source src="https://storage.googleapis.com/web-dev-assets/payments/skip-the-sheet2.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  </video>
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Skip the Payment Request UI and launch the payment app directly. 
  </figcaption>
</figure>

To launch a payment app directly, the following conditions must be met:
- `.show()` is triggered with a user gesture (for example, a mouse click).
- There is only a single payment app that:
    - Supports the requested payment method identifier.
    - Can fulfill all the delegated requirements (such as shipping address,

>       payer's phone number, payer's name, and other).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      payer's phone number, payer's name, etc.).
```

{% Aside %}
Safari currently only supports Apple Pay so it always launches the app directly,
skipping the Payment Request UI.
{% endAside %}

> ### When is a web-based payment app registered just-in-time? {: #jit-register}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### When is a web-based payment app registered just-in-time (JIT)? {: #jit-register}
```

Web-based payment apps can be launched without the user's explicit prior visit
to the payment app website and registering the service worker. The service
worker can be registered just-in-time when the user chooses to pay with the
web-based payment app. There are two variations for the registration timing:

- If the Payment Request UI is shown to the user, the app is registered

>   just-in-time and launched when the user clicks "Continue".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  just-in-time and launched when the user clicks **Continue**.
```

  payment app. Learn how to set up a payment method and get your payment app
  ready for merchants and customers to make payments.
authors:
  - agektmr
description: |
  A payment transaction using Web Payments starts with the discovery of your
  payment app. Learn how to set up a payment method and get your payment app
  ready for merchants and customers to make payments.
date: 2020-05-25
---

To be used with the Payment Request API, a payment app must be associated with a
payment method identifier. Merchants that want to integrate with a payment app
will use the payment method identifier to indicate that to the browser. This
article discusses how payment app discovery works,  and how to configure your
payment app to be properly discovered and invoked by a browser.

If you are new to the concept of Web Payments or how a payment transaction works
through payment apps, read the following articles first:

- [Empowering payment apps with Web Payments](/empowering-payment-apps)
- [Life of a payment transaction](/life-of-a-payment-transaction)

## How a browser discovers a payment app

Every payment app needs to provide the following: 

> - a URL-based payment method identifier
> - a payment method manifest (except when the payment method identifier is
>   provided by a third party)
> - a web app manifest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- URL-based payment method identifier
- Payment method manifest (except when the payment method identifier is
  provided by a third party)
- Web app manifest
```
